add documentation for otel env mappings (#23787)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/opentelemetry/interoperability/environment_variable_support.md

---

> title: Configuring Tracing Libraries Using OpenTelemetry Environment Variables

Reviewer: Let's rename "Tracing Libraries" to SDK's. In Stuart's OTel drop-in docs PR, his title is `Using OpenTelemetry Instrumentations with Datadog SDKs`. So perhaps the title could be:
- `Using OpenTelemetry Environment Variables with Datadog SDKs`, or
- `Configuring Datadog SDKs with OpenTelemetry Environment Variables`

      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: '.NET Core Tracing Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/dotnet-framework'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: '.NET Framework Tracing Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/go'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Go Tracing Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/java'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Java Tracing Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/nodejs'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Node.js Tracing Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/php'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'PHP Tracing Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/python'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Python Tracing Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/ruby'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Ruby Tracing Configuration'
---

After you set up the tracing library with your code and configure the Agent to collect APM data, optionally configure the tracing library as desired using OpenTelemetry environment variables

> Tracer settings can be configured with the following environment variables to their equivalent Datadog environment variable mapping:

Reviewer: I think we should add a note to make it clear that if the corresponding Datadog configuration is set, the OpenTelemetry configuration will be ignored.

> `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`

Reviewer: We might want to mirror what is done on the official OpenTelemetry docs. Perhaps we could even link to it? https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/configuration/sdk-environment-variables/#general-sdk-configuration

```suggestion
## General SDK Configuration

`OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`
```

> : **Mapping**: `DD_SERVICE`<br>

Reviewer: I think we may want to add a text-based description in case the user isn't familiar with any of our configuration knobs. Maybe something like this could be reworked for all of the other configurations being added to this page? BTW I'm getting inspiration from the [OpenTelemetry docs](https://opentelemetry.io/docs/specs/otel/configuration/sdk-environment-variables/#general-sdk-configuration):

```suggestion
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_SERVICE`<br>
Sets the service name.<br>
**Notes**: If `service.name` is also provided in `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`, then `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` takes precedence.
```

`OTEL_LOG_LEVEL`
: **Mapping**: `DD_LOG_LEVEL`<br>
**Notes**: A log level of debug will also map to `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true`<br>
This maps to `DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL` in `node.js`<br>
**Not Supported In**: `python`, `dotnet`, `ruby`, & `golang` tracers<br>

`OTEL_PROPAGATORS`
: **Mapping**: `DD_TRACE_PROPAGATION_STYLE`<br>
**Notes**: `datadog` along with `xray` for the `java` tracer is also accepted<br>

> `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER & OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG`

Reviewer 2: For this section I was wondering if we could do a change like the below(feel free to fix my English) so that we don't write down the env vars multiple times and the spacing is not overflooded:

`OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER & OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG`
: **Mapping**: `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`<br>
**Notes**: Mapped values between `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER` and `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`:<br>
  - `parentbased_always_on`		      | `1.0`
  - `parentbased_always_off`		    | `0.0`
  - `parentbased_traceidratio`	    | `${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`
  - `always_on`				              | `1.0`
  - `always_off`				            | `0.0`
  - `traceidratio`			            | `${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`

WDYT? Not sure what other options anyone else may think of.

Author: I like this better

**Notes**: Here are what the values passed in map to for `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`:<br>
  - OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=`parentbased_always_on`		  DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=`1.0`
  - OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=`parentbased_always_off`		DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=`0.0`
  - OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=`parentbased_traceidratio`	DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=`${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`
  - OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=`always_on`				          DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=`1.0`
  - OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=`always_off`				        DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=`0.0`
  - OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER=`traceidratio`			        DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE=`${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`

`OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER`
: **Mapping**: `DD_TRACE_ENABLED=false` <br>
**Notes**: only a value of `none ` is accepted<br>

`OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER`
: **Mapping**: `DD_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED=false` <br>
**Notes**: only a value of `none` is accepted<br>
**Not Supported In**: `php` tracer<br>

`OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`
: **Mapping**: `DD_TAGS` <br>
**Notes**: `deployment.environment` maps to the `DD_ENV` environment variable<br>
`service.name` maps to the `DD_SERVICE` environment variable<br>
`service.version` maps to the `DD_VERSION` environment variable

`OTEL_SDK_DISABLED`

> : **Mapping**: `!DD_TRACE_OTEL_ENABLED` <br>

Reviewer 2: I think here it would be better to show them example of how true is false for the other I would love to use `!` but we need to assume the users may have never code or get that.

> **Not Supported In**: `ruby`, & `golang` tracers<br>

Reviewer 2: Would need to remove the comma and also change to SDKs

> ### Java Specific Configuration

Reviewer: Suggest changing the header so it will show up in the list of sections on the right side navigation

```suggestion
## Java Specific Configuration
```

---
title: Using OpenTelemetry Environment Variables with Datadog SDKs
further_reading:
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/dotnet-core'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: '.NET Core SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/dotnet-framework'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: '.NET Framework SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/go'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Go SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/java'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Java SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/nodejs'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Node.js SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/php'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'PHP SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/python'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Python SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/ruby'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Ruby SDK Configuration'
---

> After you set up the SDK library with your code and configure the Agent to collect APM data, optionally configure the SDK library as desired using OpenTelemetry environment variables

Reviewer: An addition I think would be really useful to start this page is a _why_. If someone clicks on `OpenTelemetry > Interopability with Datadog > Environment Variable Configuration` they might still wonder if this page applies to them. I think a couple of sentences to reiterate this use case would be helpful, and I think @tushar-datadog can advise. Off the top of my head, I was thinking something like:

```
Since the Datadog SDKs implement the OpenTelemetry Tracing APIs and are continually being updated to further implement additional OpenTelemetry APIs, you can replace the OpenTelemetry SDK in your application with the Datadog SDK to receive traces and additional Datadog-supported signals with minimal changes to SDK configuration when using the OpenTelemetry SDK configurations outline below.
```

Reviewer: @brett0000FF I wonder if you have any opinions on this suggestion? If you don't think we need to change anything then feel free to hit `Resolve conversation` 👍🏼

Reviewer 3: @zacharycmontoya - Good question. I missed this suggestion of yours. I agree that it'd be helpful to include a bit more detail about the use cases at the top of the page. We could create a small Overview section at the top to expand on these details. @khanayan123 , let me know if you'd like me to commit an overview section to this PR. 👍

SDK settings can be configured with the following environment variables with their equivalent Datadog environment variable mapping:

Note: If both set, Datadog environment variables take precedence over OTel environment variables, Likewise Datadog defaults take precedence over OTel defaults. Please refer to the configuration page for the relevant SDK for more information on default values.

> ## [General SDK Configuration][9]

Reviewer: It looks like doing the link on the header results in the user getting redirected to the external page when they click on the right-side navigation bar. Maybe you can add some simple explanation text before the table that says something like "for more info, see the OpenTelemetry documentation" and link that? This feedback also applies to the Java configuration header

`OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_SERVICE`<br>
Sets the service name<br>
**Notes**: If `service.name` is also provided in `OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`, then `OTEL_SERVICE_NAME` takes precedence<br>

`OTEL_LOG_LEVEL`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_LOG_LEVEL`<br>
Log level used by the SDK logger<br>
**Notes**: A log level of debug will also map to `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true`<br>

> This maps to `DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL` in `node.js`<br>

Reviewer: Can you double-check that Node is the only that uses `DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL` and update this as necessary?

Author: PHP also uses DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL

Mapped values between `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER` & `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`:<br>
  - `parentbased_always_on`|`1.0`
  - `parentbased_always_off`|`0.0`
  - `parentbased_traceidratio`|`${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`
  - `always_on`|`1.0`
  - `always_off`|`0.0`
  - `traceidratio`|`${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`

`OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_TRACE_ENABLED=false` <br>
Trace exporter to be used<br>
**Notes**: only a value of `none ` is accepted<br>

`OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED=false` <br>
Metrics exporter to be used<br>
**Notes**: only a value of `none` is accepted<br>
**Not Supported In**: `php` sdk<br>

`OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_TAGS` <br>
Key-value pairs to be used as resource attributes. See [Resource semantic conventions][11] for details<br>
**Notes**: `deployment.environment` maps to the `DD_ENV` environment variable<br>
`service.name` maps to the `DD_SERVICE` environment variable<br>
`service.version` maps to the `DD_VERSION` environment variable

`OTEL_SDK_DISABLED`

> : **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `!DD_TRACE_OTEL_ENABLED` <br>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_TRACE_OTEL_ENABLED-false` <br>
```

---
title: Using OpenTelemetry Environment Variables with Datadog SDKs
further_reading:
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/dotnet-core'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: '.NET Core SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/dotnet-framework'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: '.NET Framework SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/go'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Go SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/java'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Java SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/nodejs'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Node.js SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/php'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'PHP SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/python'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Python SDK Configuration'
    - link: '/tracing/trace_collection/library_config/ruby'
      tag: 'Documentation'
      text: 'Ruby SDK Configuration'
---

> Datadog SDKs support the following OpenTelemetry configuration options, allowing you to use OpenTelemetry environment variables to configure Datadog tracing for your applications.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Datadog SDKs implement the OpenTelemetry Tracing APIs, allowing you to use OpenTelemetry environment variables to configure Datadog tracing for your applications. Replace the OpenTelemetry SDK with the Datadog SDK in your application to receive traces and additional Datadog telemetry with minimal changes to your existing configuration.

This page describes the OpenTelemetry SDK options Datadog supports.
```
Apologies, last suggestion from me based on @zacharycmontoya 's comment.

SDK settings can be configured with the following environment variables with their equivalent Datadog environment variable mapping:

> 

Reviewer 4: IMO, you can collapse lines 30-32 into just "The following Opentelemetry configuration options are supported in Datadog SDKs," along with a note about how support for Opentelemetry env vars is expanding / more will be supported in the future.
I don't think customer's need all that prereq info, and I think it's clearer to get straight to the point, but I suppose the docs team can weigh in on that.

Note: If both set, Datadog environment variables take precedence over OpenTelemetry environment variables, Likewise Datadog defaults take precedence over OpenTelemetry defaults. Please refer to the configuration page for the relevant SDK for more information on default values.

[for more info, see the OpenTelemetry documentation][9]
## General SDK Configuration

`OTEL_SERVICE_NAME`

> : **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_SERVICE`<br>

Reviewer 3: We could maybe use something more succinct since it repeats for all options. For example, **Datadog convention**:

`OTEL_LOG_LEVEL`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_LOG_LEVEL`<br>
Log level used by the SDK logger<br>

> **Notes**: A log level of debug will also map to `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true`<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Notes**: A log level of debug also maps to `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true`<br>
```

Log level used by the SDK logger<br>
**Notes**: A log level of debug will also map to `DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true`<br>
This maps to `DD_TRACE_LOG_LEVEL` in `nodejs` & `php` sdk's<br>

> **Not Supported In**: `python`, `dotnet`, `ruby`, & `golang` sdk's<br>

Reviewer 4: In Go, it maps to `DD_TRACE_DEBUG`, where `OTEL_LOG_LEVEL=info` maps to` DD_TRACE_DEBUG=false`, and `OTEL_LOG_LEVEL=debug` maps to` DD_TRACE_DEBUG=true`.
So it's not exactly a 1:1 mapping, as only `info` and `debug` values are supported/translated.

> **Not Supported In**: `python`, `dotnet`, `ruby`, & `golang` sdk's<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Python, .NET, Ruby, and Go SDKs<br>
```
I think the monospace formatting for SDK names makes it a little harder to read. Also, we should capitalize SDK and not use an apostrophe.

**Not Supported In**: Python, .NET, Ruby, and Go SDKs<br>

`OTEL_PROPAGATORS`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_TRACE_PROPAGATION_STYLE`<br>
Propagators to be used as a comma-separated list<br>

> **Notes**: the only supported values for most Datadog SDKs are `tracecontext`, `b3`, `b3multi`, `none`, `datadog`. `xray` is also supported for the Java SDK<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Notes**: The only supported values for most Datadog SDKs are `tracecontext`, `b3`, `b3multi`, `none`, `datadog`. `xray` is also supported for the Java SDK<br>
```

> **Notes**: the only supported values are `tracecontext`, `b3`, `b3multi`, `none`, `datadog` along with `xray` for the `java` sdk<br>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
**Notes**: the only supported values for most Datadog SDKs are `tracecontext`, `b3`, `b3multi`, `none`, `datadog`. `xray` is also supported for the `java` sdk<br>
```

Values MUST be deduplicated in order to register a `Propagator` only once<br>

`OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER & OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`<br>
`OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER`: Sampler to be used for traces & `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG`: String value to be used as the sampler argument<br>

> **Notes**: The specified value will only be used if `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER` is set. Each Sampler type defines its own expected input, if any. Invalid or unrecognized input MUST be logged and MUST be otherwise ignored, i.e. the implementation MUST behave as if `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG` is not set<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Notes**: The specified value is only used if `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER` is set. Each Sampler type defines its own expected input, if any. Invalid or unrecognized input MUST be logged and MUST be otherwise ignored. In such cases, the implementation MUST behave as if `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG` is not set<br>
```

Mapped values between `OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER` & `DD_TRACE_SAMPLE_RATE`:<br>
  - `parentbased_always_on`|`1.0`
  - `parentbased_always_off`|`0.0`
  - `parentbased_traceidratio`|`${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`
  - `always_on`|`1.0`
  - `always_off`|`0.0`
  - `traceidratio`|`${OTEL_TRACES_SAMPLER_ARG}`

`OTEL_TRACES_EXPORTER`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_TRACE_ENABLED=false` <br>
Trace exporter to be used<br>

> **Notes**: only a value of `none` is accepted<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Notes**: Only a value of `none` is accepted<br>
```

> **Notes**: only a value of `none ` is accepted<br>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
**Notes**: only a value of `none` is accepted<br>
```

`OTEL_METRICS_EXPORTER`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED=false` <br>
Metrics exporter to be used<br>
**Notes**: only a value of `none` is accepted<br>

> **Not Supported In**: `php` sdk<br>

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: `php`, `ruby` sdk<br>
```

> **Not Supported In**: `php` sdk<br>

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```
Not necessary to mention it - we simply just don't have runtime metrics, having the env var specified ... has the desired effect: still no runtime metrics :-)

Reviewer 6: In Ruby `DD_RUNTIME_METRICS_ENABLED` is set to `False` by default. So there is no need to remap this configuration.

`OTEL_RESOURCE_ATTRIBUTES`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_TAGS` <br>
Key-value pairs to be used as resource attributes. See [Resource semantic conventions][11] for details<br>

> **Notes**: Only the first 10 key-value pairs will be used, the subsequent values will be dropped<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Notes**: Only the first 10 key-value pairs are used; the subsequent values are dropped<br>
```

`service.name` maps to the `DD_SERVICE` environment variable<br>

> `service.version` maps to the `DD_VERSION` environment variable

Reviewer 4: We should note that only the first 10 will be picked up, subsequent values dropped

`OTEL_SDK_DISABLED`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `!DD_TRACE_OTEL_ENABLED` <br>
Disable the SDK for all signals<br>
**Notes**: Mapped values between `OTEL_SDK_DISABLED` & `DD_TRACE_OTEL_ENABLED`:<br>
  - `true`|`false`

>   - `false`|`true`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  - `false`|`true` <br>
```

> **Not Supported In**: `ruby` & `golang` sdk's<br>

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure if it's worth getting into here, but - some could find the wording "Not supported" confusing. It could read like, "enabling the Otel SDK is not supported in ruby & golang" when instead, it's that you don't need to turn the otel SDK on or off in Go. You either import it & configure it, or you don't.
What do you think?

Reviewer 3: I think that's a good point, because that wasn't clear to me. Maybe we can say something like "**Ruby & Go SDKs***: The OpenTelemetry SDK activates automatically upon import and configuration, so this setting is not applicable." instead?

> **Not Supported In**: `ruby` & `golang` sdk's<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Not Supported In**: Ruby and  Go SDKs<br>
```

[for more info, see the OpenTelemetry documentation][10]

> ## Java Specific Configuration

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Java-specific configuration

Datadog SDKs support the following Java-specific OpenTelemetry configuration options. For more information, see the [OpenTelemetry documentation on Java agent configuration][10].
```

`OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_COMMON_DEFAULT_ENABLED`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `!DD_INTEGRATIONS_ENABLED` <br>
Set to `false` to disable all instrumentation in the agent<br>
**Notes**: Mapped values between `OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_COMMON_DEFAULT_ENABLED` & `DD_INTEGRATIONS_ENABLED`:<br>
  - `true`|`false`
  - `false`|`true`

`OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_[NAME]_ENABLED`
: **Description**: Enables/disables the named OTel drop-in instrumentation<br>

`OTEL_JAVAAGENT_CONFIGURATION_FILE`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_TRACE_CONFIG` <br>

> Path to valid Java properties file which contains the agent configuration<br>

Reviewer 7: Note: when`OTEL_JAVAAGENT_CONFIGURATION_FILE` and `DD_TRACE_CONFIG` are both set we apply the settings from both files.

`OTEL_JAVAAGENT_CONFIGURATION_FILE`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_TRACE_CONFIG` <br>
Path to valid Java properties file which contains the agent configuration<br>

> **Notes**: when OTEL_JAVAAGENT_CONFIGURATION_FILE and DD_TRACE_CONFIG are both set we apply the configuration from both files. This is an exception to the usual rule where the Datadog setting overrides the OTel one<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Notes**: When OTEL_JAVAAGENT_CONFIGURATION_FILE and DD_TRACE_CONFIG are both set we apply the configuration from both files. This is an exception to the usual rule where the Datadog setting overrides the OTel one<br>
```

> **Notes**: Note there is a difference in the generated request tag name:<br>
>   - Datadog:	 `http.request.headers.<header-name>`
>   - OTel:		   `http.request.header.<header-name>`

Reviewer 7: To clarify, when we map the OTel setting we follow the OTel naming convention for the generated tag name.

We might want to call this out more explicitly:
```suggestion
**Notes**: Header tagging configured using OTel environment variables follows the OTel tag name convention of `http.request.header.<header-name>` rather than the Datadog convention of `http.request.headers.<header-name>`<br>
```

> A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP client instrumentations will capture HTTP request header values for all configured header names<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP client instrumentations capture HTTP request header values for all configured header names<br>
```

**Notes**: Header tagging configured using OTel environment variables follows the OTel tag name convention of `http.request.header.<header-name>` rather than the Datadog convention of `http.request.headers.<header-name>`<br>

`OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_HTTP_CLIENT_CAPTURE_RESPONSE_HEADERS`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_TAGS` <br>

> A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP client instrumentations will capture HTTP response header values for all configured header names<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP client instrumentations capture HTTP response header values for all configured header names<br>
```

**Notes**: Header tagging configured using OTel environment variables follows the OTel tag name convention of `http.response.header.<header-name>` rather than the Datadog convention of `http.response.headers.<header-name>`<br>

`OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_HTTP_SERVER_CAPTURE_REQUEST_HEADERS`
: ****Datadog convention****: `DD_TRACE_REQUEST_HEADER_TAGS` <br>

> A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP server instrumentations will capture HTTP request header values for all configured header names<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP server instrumentations capture HTTP request header values for all configured header names<br>
```

**Notes**: Note there is a difference in the generated request tag name:<br>
  - Datadog:	 `http.request.headers.<header-name>`
  - OTel:		   `http.request.header.<header-name>`

`OTEL_INSTRUMENTATION_HTTP_SERVER_CAPTURE_RESPONSE_HEADERS`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_TRACE_RESPONSE_HEADER_TAGS` <br>
A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP server instrumentations will capture HTTP response header values for all configured header names<br>
**Notes**: there is a difference in the generated response tag name:<br>
  - Datadog:	`http.response.headers.<header-name>`

>   - OTel:		  `http.response.header.<header-name>`

Reviewer 7: Note these are specific to the OpenTelemetry javaagent: https://opentelemetry.io/docs/zero-code/java/agent/configuration/#capturing-http-request-and-response-headers so they don't need to be mapped for other languages.

> 

Reviewer 7: One more Java-specific mapping to add:
```
`OTEL_JAVAAGENT_EXTENSIONS`
: **Corresponding Datadog Environment Variable**: `DD_TRACE_EXTENSIONS_PATH` <br>
A comma-separated list of paths to extension jar files, or folders containing jar files. If pointing to a folder, every jar file in that folder will be treated as a separate, independent extension. <br>
```

> A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP server instrumentations will capture HTTP response header values for all configured header names<br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A comma-separated list of HTTP header names. HTTP server instrumentations capture HTTP response header values for all configured header names<br>
```

> A comma-separated list of paths to extension jar files, or folders containing jar files. If pointing to a folder, every jar file in that folder will be treated as a separate, independent extension. <br>

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A comma-separated list of paths to extension jar files, or folders containing jar files. If pointing to a folder, every jar file in that folder is treated as a separate, independent extension. <br>
```
